---
layout: single
title: ""
permalink: /events/2022-05-04
toc: true
sidebar:
  - nav: ""
author:
  name: "Dr Heather Turner"
  avatar: "/assets/images/2022-05-04_heatherturner.jpg"
  bio: "EPSRC RSE Fellow" # Note: Markdown is allowed
  location: "University of Warwick<br>"
  links:
    - label: "Website"
      icon: "fas fa-fw fa-globe"
      url: "https://warwick.ac.uk/heatherturner"
author_profile: true
breadcrumbs: true
---

<span style="font-size: 1.2em"><strong>EDI in the R Community</strong></span>

<span style="font-size: 1em; color: #bbb;">
        <a href="https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20220504T150000&p1=224&p2=64&p3=179&p4=1440&p5=136&p6=37&p7=101&p8=170&p9=776&p10=438&p11=236&p12=240" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">15:00-16:00 UTC</a>, Wednesday 4th May, 2022
</span>

<span style="font-size: 1em"><strong>Registration: </strong> <a href="https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZUsduuorjItHtRqDKkgy-wqQv1hgnI2NbUZ"
target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">via Zoom</a></span>

#### Overview

We're delighted to welcome Dr Heather Turner from the University of Warwick, UK
as our next speaker in the DiveRSE talk series.

Following the talk, there will be time for questions and general discussion.

This talk is being supported by the <a
href="https://society-rse.org/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
Society of Research Software Engineering</a>. Register for this talk 
<a href="https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZUsduuorjItHtRqDKkgy-wqQv1hgnI2NbUZ"
target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">via Zoom</a>.

#### Abstract

Since the beginnings of the R project around 30 years ago, a large community of
users and developers has formed around it. As the community grew, a lack of
diversity became increasingly apparent and in recent years there have been
various efforts to make the community more diverse and inclusive. Some of these
efforts have been "top-down" - lead by organizations such as the R Foundation
or R Consortium - and others have been "bottom-up" - initiated by individuals,
often leading to the formation of community groups or projects. In this talk I
will give an overview of these initiatives and their impact. I will also
discuss recent and ongoing work to improve EDI in the community of contributors
to the R project itself. This work is being led by the R Contribution Working
Group and is the focus of my Research Software Engineering Fellowship funded by
the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (UK).

#### About the speaker

Heather is a Research Software Engineering Fellow based in
the Statistics Department at the University of Warwick, UK. Her career path
has spanned both academia and industry, with a focus on the development of
statistical code and software using R. Heather is active in community
management and engagement among R users and developers. She is on the board of
the R Foundation and chairs Forwards, the R Foundation taskforce for
underrepresented groups. She also leads the R Contribution Working Group, which
is a collaboration between the R Core Team and R community groups. In her
fellowship, she is working to improve sustainability and equality, diversity
and inclusion in the R project.

#### Registration

<a href="https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZUsduuorjItHtRqDKkgy-wqQv1hgnI2NbUZ"
target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Register here</a>. This talk will
take place via Zoom.

A recording of the talk will also be made available on the [Society of Research
Software Engineering Youtube
Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCL7rYOIAP1Rx_VajLPDF-hA) following
the session.
